- Concepts
	- Every Pod has an IP address assigned.
		- All containers in the pod share that address.
		- If there are multiple containers in the Pod, they can communicate on the localhost address.
	- All the containers in a Pod are part of the same virtual environment.
	- Hierarchy
		- Containers => Pod => Deployment.
	- Pods
		- Pods are connected to the VN managed by Kubernetes. Thay can communicate by IP address, even if they are running on different nodes in the cluster.
		- Pods are allocated to one node when they are created, and it's that node's responsibility to manage the Pod and its containers.
			- it does that by working with the container runtime using a known API called the [[Container Runtime Interface (CRI)]].
	- Controller
		- A Kubernetes resource that manages other resources.
		- It works with the Kubernetes API to
			- Watch the current state of the system
			- Compares that to the desired state of its resources.
			- Makes any changes necessary.
		- Example ((63df7537-54cf-4315-8055-c75432c2bbbc))
	- Deployment
	  id:: 63df7537-54cf-4315-8055-c75432c2bbbc
		- Created to manage the Pods.
- Commands
	- Pods
		- `kubectl get pods`
			- List all pods in the cluster
		- `kubectl describe pod {pod-name}`
			- Show pod's detailed information
		- `kubectl get pods -l app={app-label}`
			- Get pods and filter it by app label
		- `kubectl exec -it {pod-name} -- sh`
			- Get into the pod and drop to the terminal.
		- `kubectl delete pods --all`
			- Delete all pods
	- Deployment
		- Can be shortened as `deploy` instead of `deployment`
		- `kubectl create deployment {deployment-name} --image={source-image}`
			- Create deployment
		- `kubectl delete deploy --all`
			- Delete all deployment
	- Nodes
		- `kubectl get nodes`
			- List all nodes in the cluster
	- Port
		- `kubectl port-forward {pod-name} {localhost-port:pod-port}`
			- port-forward for Pod
			- Ctrl-c to end port-forward
			- Example:
				- `kubectl port-forward pod/hello 8080:80`
		- `kubectl port-forward deploy/{deployment-label} {localhost-port:deployment-port}`
			- Ctrl-c to end port-forward
			- Example
				- `kubectl port-forward deploy/hello 8080:80`
	- Manifest
		- `kubectl apply -f {filename}.yaml`
			- Apply app from yaml file.
			- We could also use the remote file for this (e.g., from Github)
	- Logging
		- `kubectl logs --tail=2 {pod-name}`
			- Get logs (last 2 entries) from the pod
		- `kubectl logs --tail={num-of-last-entries} -l app={app-label}`
			- Get logs from the deployment that matches the label
	- File
		- `kubectl cp {pod-name}:{source} {local-destination}`
			- Copy file from a pod to local file system.
	- Others
		- `kubectl get all`
			- Get "all" from current Kubernetes cluster
				- Pods
				- Services
				- Deployment
				- Replica Set